[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So saying that we
couldn't resist adding some new syntax.
We did it not too much and
I'll warn you all of these are fatal
errors in browsers before IE 9,
so if you're still on IE 8
please ignore the following.
So we added trailing
commas to object literals,
which is not useful,
I don't recommend you use it.
The reason we did that was because we
fixed the way trailing commas worked in
array literals.
It turns out arrays always
allowed that dangling comma but
they disagreed on what it meant.
On some browsers that array
would have a length of two.
On IE browsers it had a length of three.
When you have that kind of disparity
bugs can happen so we changed it so
the rule is now the dangling
comma is ignored so
everybody will agree that
it has a length of two.
We fixed a terrible reserved word policy.
JavaScript's original reserved
word policy said that
you could not have a reserved word in
name position, in an object literal or
in dot position and
there's is no reason for that.
We fixed that.
So everything that's yellow now used
to be an error, that's all now okay.
So that's good.
In fact the reason that JSON
requires quotes around its
names was because of this
design problem in ES3.
We added getters and setters.
These are accessor properties, so
that when you go to retrieve a value
from an object or go to store a value
into an object, instead a function
will be called which will either
consume your value or return a value.
And that allows some new
forms of programming.
So here we've got a temperature
constructor which has a celsius property
and a fahrenheit property.
You can read either one and
you can set either one.
You don't know how it works but
it just works.
That's a pretty nifty thing.
Now turns out you can do some really
stupid stuff with this because
if you use this correctly,
then these methods will be very limited,
very restricted in what they do, but
there is no actual restriction on them.
They can do anything.
They can change everything
in the world and so you can
simply by reading a property of an object
you can cause things to happen over there.
I don't recommend you do
that because it's stupid.
I'm sure somebody is gonna do that and
they're gonna,
I bet nobody thought that you could
do that, and will go and do that.
We actually did think about that,
just hoping nobody does that.
Earlier, we talked about
the multiline string literals,
I still think this was a mistake.
>> Douglas Crockford: This is great.
So it used to be infinity, NaN and
undefined were not constants,
they were global variables,
which meant you could change them.
You could say today infinity is five,
let's see what happens.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: I know that security
experts were very worried about
someone redefining undefined, and
what the consequences of that could be.
I'm not aware of any exploits that
actually happened as a result of that, but
it is something that was worried about.
So they are now read only variables.
So [SOUND] now that's fixed.
We fixed parseInt so
that it no longer defaults to octal
when the first character is zero.
I still recommend putting in
the radix argument anyway but
at least the least the default behavior
is not nearly as bad as it had been.
Regular expression literals now will
produce a new regular expression
object every time they're evaluated, so
they work the same way that functions do.
The reason we did that,
originally the compiler would only create
one regular expression object for
each regular expression literal.
And the problem with that is,
that they contain state.
For example they contain a last,
what was it last position or
last, anybody remember?
The thing that exec uses to remember
where the last match happened.
No one knows?
Anyway, there's this variable that's in
there which if everybody is sharing it,
then you can't have multiple execs
happening because they'll interfere with
each other so we fixed that.
This was awful, so I told you
earlier about the object function.
It gets called every
time you make an object,
and the array function gets called
every time you make an array.
It turns out you could replace those
functions with your function so
you get called every time someone
makes an object or an array.
And that's a huge security violation,
right?
You don't want some code to be
able to take those things over, so
the specification will now say as if by
the original object function or array
function that you can still replace them
but you don't get the security hazard.
I'm happy to report that JSON, the world's
best loved data interchange format,
is now built into the language.
So we've got a JSON object that provides
a parse function and a stringify function.
Those names are my fault,
completely my fault.
I probably should have said encode or
decode, or something like that, but
I didn't.
So we're stuck with those,
so, you're welcome.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: If you're using
json2.js then it works exactly the same,
except json2.js knows to get out of
the way if built in one is there,
so it'll just get faster
which is what you want.